# PROTON logo
# PROTON
**The MIC stack genesis!**

PROTON is a high-level Python framework that facilitates rapid server-side development with clean & pragmatic design. Thanks for checking it out!

PROTON aims at easing server-side development for all Python enthusiasts. Essentially, by running a shell command, developer will auto generate necessary Model, Controller and APIs! All of this with connectivity to Transactional Databases (PROTON supports Postgresql, MySQL & SQL Server),Cacheing (Redis middleware), Auto generated OpenAPI specs & descriptive logging! One command, to get a production ready server-side stack!

# Getting Started
- Install postgres on your local machine. `sudo apt-get install postgresql`
- Clone PROTON using `git clone `
- Create a virtual environment. (If using anaconda, `conda create -n <env name> python=3`)
- `cd PROTON`
- `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- PROTON relies on Redis for cacheing. Install redis using `sudo apt-get install redis-server`
- Thats it! You are ready to create your first MIC (Model, Interface, Controller) stack!

# Example

Generate a new MIC stack named **testMic** :
`
 ./protongen.sh -n testMic -p 3000
`
<MIC stack screenshot for testMic>

Your code base will now include, dynamically generated content for **testMic** all the way from Model, Controller & Interface!
# Dynamically generated codebase screenshot

PROTON will dynamically generate an API for every method defined in the controller for **testMic**. Right now, there is a method named `schemaInformation` within `ControllerName` for **testMic**. Convention for generated route will be <get_micName_controllerMethod>. Go to, `localhost:3000/get_testMic_schemaInformation`; you will see the schema information for connected database in postgresql! This is the default code auto-generated by PROTON for every new MicStack
<Screenshot of API for SCHEMAInformation>

For every auto generated route, cache will steer PROTON on steroids for subsequent get calls! Each entry in cache will live upto a day! You can change this lifespan by editing `CACHE_LIFESPAN` within PROTON's `configuration.py`

<Screenshot for Cache>

Now, when you want to add a new method/expose newer APIs within **testMic**, all you should be doing is write SQL and create a method within PROTON's respective MIC stack.

<Screenshot of adding a newer method in controller for testMic>

With newer method now in place, to generate API, all you do is issue this one command:
` ./protongen.sh -s yes`

<Screenshot of newly generated routes for newly added method for controller.>

Newly generated route will also get cache settled!

<Screenshot of cache for newly generated route!>

Generating a new MIC stack will leave existing stack unaltered.

<Screenshot of generating new MIC stack>

<Screenshot of available routes>

Trace for PROTON stack will be enabled throughout. Checkout `./trace/` directory.

<Screenshot of trace directory>

<Screenshot of one trace log>

PROTON also ships with ability to automagically generate OpenAPI specs!

<Screenshot for OpenAPI Specs.Json and YAML>

Should you want to delete from existing PROTON MIC stack, again, oyu stand one command away! Like Generator, PROTON also ships with Destroyer which pragmatically clears the desired MIC from PROTON stack. (This will also clean the Cache entries automagically; only for mic that is targeted to be killed.)

`./protonkill.sh -k <micName>`

<Screenshot of killing testMic>

PROTON will continue to perform/live with remaining MIC stack after destroyer completing its job!

<Screenshot of remaining micStack after killing testMic>



NOTE: PROTON uses Gunicorn as High Performance Server. Gunicorn is built to utilize kernel features of Unix/Linux machines. Hence, PROTON will be seamless on Unix/Linux platforms. On Windows, PROTON will require fallback to another WSGI server which is Work In Progress at this moment.

# Features in active development:
- Support for MySql, SqlLite and SqlServer relational databases.
- Pipelines to transfer form and to datawarehouse to database. Support for GCP's bigQuery and AWS's RedShift in progress.
- containerization of PROTON. Docker build and Kubernetes deployable PROTON!
- Auto generated Swagger UI from PROTON generated openAPI specs.

# Support
For any  feedback or issues write to Pruthvi @ pruthvikumar.123@gmail.com. Ensure to have a valid subject line, detailed message with appropriate stack trace to expect prompt/quick response.

# License